# Python-Challenge
------------
## Project Description
The purpose of the project is to analyze financial data and election data to find key statistics.

------------
## Credits
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

------------
## Softwares Used
### Language
Python

### Software
VS Code
GitLens
------------
## PyBank Data
-   Imported the csv containing the financial data.
-   Set variables to track the number of monthss and the total profits.
-   Start a list for the net change from month to month.
-   Set variables for the profit increase and decrease.
-   Opened the csv in a with loop, separated out the header and first row and started the column count with the first row.
-   Set the initial net profit, started a for loop to add the profit to the total profit and compare the current month's profit to the current maximum and minimum profit and store the current month's profit if it is the maximum or minimum profit so far.
-   Sum the profit changes.  
-   Find the average profit change.
-   Print out the total number of months, total profit, average profit, greatest increase in profits and greatest decrease in profits.
-   Wrote the financial analysis to a txt file.

## PyPoll Data
-  Imported the csv containing the election data.
-  Open the csv file, sequestered the header, established a list of candidates, set the candidate count to zero, set the total votes and all candidate votes to zero.
-  Using a for loop, check if a candidate is in the list, if they are not, added their name to the list and increase the total votes by one, if the candidate is in the list, just add one to the total votes.
-  In another if else statement, find the current candidate and find the matching candidate and add one to their vote count.
-  Count how many candidates are in the candidate list.
-  Calculate the percent of votes each candidate got.
-  Print the election results.
-  Find and print the name of the winner as well as the rest of the election results.
-  Wrote the election results to a txt file.

## Conclusion
Learned to use python to analyze csvs.
